---
layout: post
title:      "Sinatra MVC Project: They Have the Plant, but We Have the Power"
date:       2018-07-02 09:57:59 -0400
permalink:  sinatra_mvc_project_they_have_the_plant_but_we_have_the_power
---


Supporting marginalized communities is one of the big things on my mind right now, so for my Sinatra project I chose to create a protest scheduler, although really you could use it for virtually any type of event (e.g. one of the test protests is my daughter's second birthday party).  

The element of the project that was most challenging for me was allowing users to create and update events.  Other aspects of this (setting up a sign in page, users having the ability to delete an object, and displaying the events) felt pretty straightfoward, but creating and updating require more thought in terms of validating inputs.  The hardest part for me was including the categories because I wanted a user to be able either to select an existing category or create a new category for their event, which meant that rather than an event being created or updated in a straightfoward manner just based on the params hash, I had to take into account whether they'd entered a new category or checked a box.  I also find including all the checkboxes in the views page a lot harder than just displaying an attribute so in that sense I'm really glad I included the categories this way; it was harder but that means I learned more.  Good for me!  

A sort of meta-challenge I have doing these projects is not overdoing them; there are features I'd love to add (e.g. using the events table as a join table between the categories and the users so you can view how many of each type of event a user has).  If I ever got this up and running, that's definitely something I'd do!  And there are changes I'd like to make as I reflect on the project, including integrating something like Google maps into the location field, even just making the location field a link to a search of Google maps.  If for some reason I ever return to this project, these are definitely features I would include, and I'd probably give users a place to fill out their profiles a bit more and get notifications about events in their area that might interest them (I'd need an email field in the sign up page for this, although I'd make it optional because some people are understandably leery of providing their personal information when signing up to protest).  It's hard not to get excited and overly ambitious and I'd love to include these, but it's not practical right now since I have a ton more learning to do.  Either way, starting the bigger projects is intimidating for me because it's up to me to determine how I want to start and where I want to go, but as I start working through them I am always excited and it's hard to stop.
